# Metadata Description for DataS3

The zipped folder DataS3 contains 4 analysis files: 1) the JAGS model file to conduct sensitivity analysis by sampling from Normal distributions based on the mean and environmental variances of vital rates ("JAGS_sensitivity_w_envarNORM.txt"), 2) the JAGS model file to conduct sensitivity analysis by sampling from Beta distribution based on the mean and environmental variances of vital rates ("JAGS_sensitivity_w_envarBETA.txt"),and data and model execution files to be used in Program R 
for the 3) East Fork ("DataS3_EF.txt") and 4) West Fork ("DataS3_EF.txt") populations. All code were implemented using R version x64 3.3.2 and JAGS version JAGS-4.2.0 on a PC running Windows 10 with 16 GB RAM and I7 Intel Core processor. JAGS, which stands for "Just Another Gibbs Sampler" conducts the MCMC in the background and is accessed through R. JAGS-4.2.0 can be downloaded from the Sourceforge website at: https://sourceforge.net/projects/mcmc-jags/files/. The R package "R2jags" was used to conduct the MCMC sampling from R, which depends on "rjags". After installing R, JAGS, and the package "R2jags", the working directory in R must be set to the location of the JAGS model file. Once the working directory is set, simply run the R code provided. The output can be viewed by calling the named "rjags" object in R (e.g., rr.res_WF_sensENV). For this analysis we provided code to simulate data since our real dataset included only 3 years of data, which makes it difficult to estimate the environmental variability. The sensitivity IPM (with environmental variance estimation) provided here includes only vital rate data, but it could be  modified to include count data as well by adding code to the JAGS model file and modifying the data included in the model (i.e., include count data in the sp.dataEF and sp.dataWF data bundles and add parameters to save in sp.paramsEF and sp.params WF). The data include an identity matrix (i.e., "Identity") and three empty matrices (i.e., "mat", "sensMAT", and "inMAT") that are used in sensitivty calculations. We provided code to simulate vital rates for life-stage simulation analysis using both Normal and Beta distributions because, while it is easier to sample from a truncated Normal distribution, it is more statistically sound to sample from Beta distributions which have the proper support for survival and fecundity parameters (i.e., support from 0 to 1). We have provided detailed descriptions of the data, parameters, and functions in both the JAGS and data text files, and therefore, we will not go into further detail about them here. 
